add search getting started (#372)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/search/getting-started.md

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Getting started with Search
---

> In this getting started guide, you will add search functionality to the Address Book app that you build in the [Macrometa Quickstart](https://macrometa.com/docs/quickstart).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this getting started guide, we show you how to add search functionality to the Address Book application that you build in the [Macrometa Quickstart](https://macrometa.com/docs/quickstart).
```

Not a necessary change, but present tense is generally preferred

> In this getting started guide we will be adding search functionality to the Address Book app that you build by following our [quickstart guide](https://macrometa.com/docs/quickstart).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this getting started guide, you will add search functionality to the Address Book app that you build in the [Macrometa Quickstart](https://macrometa.com/docs/quickstart).
```

## Prerequisites

> - A [Macrometa account](https://auth.paas.macrometa.io/).

Author: @dallas-macrometa @diana-macrometa, yes this is the old url

> - A [Macrometa account](https://auth.paas.macrometa.io/).

Reviewer 2: Is it supposed to be?

> - Completion of our [quickstart guide](https://macrometa.com/docs/quickstart).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Completion of the [Macrometa Quickstart](https://macrometa.com/docs/quickstart).
```

> ## Step 1: Create a view

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1. Create a View
```

>  A search _view_ an inverted index that contains the search configuration and all document attributes across one or many collections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 A _search view_ is an inverted index that contains the search configuration and all document attributes across one or many collections.
```

1. On the side menu, click **Search Views**.

> 2. Click **New View**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **New View**.
```

Reviewer: We can change all ordered list items to `1.` so we can easily add/remove steps without changing the whole order manually

> 2. Click **New view**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **New View**.
```

> 3. In **Name**, enter `addresses_view`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **Name**, enter `addresses_view`.
```

> 4. Click the **plus** under Mapping Definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **plus** under Mapping Definition.
```

> 5. Select the `addresses` collection from the COLLECTION list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`. Select the `addresses` collection from the COLLECTION list. 
```

Reviewer: @diana-macrometa When referring to a specific collection to select, should we use **GUI** style or `code sample`?

> 5. Select the `addresses` collection from the COLLECTION dropdown. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Select the `addresses` collection from the COLLECTION list. 
```

> 6. Enter `lastName` in `field` and select **text_en** in the ANALYZER list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter `lastName` in `field` and select **text_en** in the ANALYZER list. 
```

> 6. Enter `lastName` in `FIELD` and select **text_en** in the ANALYZER dropdown. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Enter `lastName` in `FIELD` and select **text_en** in the ANALYZER list. 
```

Reviewer 2: Make this step two separate steps, one per field.

> 7. Follow steps 5 and 6 two more times, but add `firstName` in the second Mapping Definition and `email` in the third Mapping Definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Repeat the previous two steps twice more, but add `firstName` in the second Mapping Definition and `email` in the third Mapping Definition.
```

Probably best to avoid referring to specific steps.  @diana-macrometa any suggestions on improving on this?

> 7. Follow steps 5 and 6 two more times, but add `firstName` in the second Mapping Definition and `email` in the third Mapping Definition.

Reviewer 2: You do not need to capitalize things unless you are referring to the UI. In step 4, you were referring to the UI. In this step, they are generic mapping definitions, so do not require capitalization.

> 8. Click **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create**.
```

> 8. Click the **Create** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Click **Create**.
```

> Macrometa distributes this view index to every location in the global fabrics. If you're curious about the locations, click **Dashboard** to see the default [GeoFabric](geofabrics/index.md) locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Macrometa distributes this view index to every location in the global GeoFabrics. If you're curious about the locations, click **Dashboard** to see the default [GeoFabric](geofabrics/index.md) locations.
```

We should probably change instances of "fabric" to "GeoFabric" to keep consistent with the UI

> Our view is now accessible worldwide, and your three address collection key values are indexed and ready to query!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our view is now accessible worldwide with three indexed key values ready to query!
```

Not sure if we need to reiterate the "address collection" part

> ## Step 2. Query your View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Query Your View
```

> ## Step 2: Query your view

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Query your View
```

1. On the side menu, click **Query Workers**.

> 2. The code block below is a search query that will allow you to pass in a query parameter to search you index. Copy and paste it in the code editor on line 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The code block below is a search query that will allow you to pass in a query parameter to search you index. Copy and paste it in the code editor on line 1.
```

  ```sql
    FOR contact IN addresses_view
        SEARCH ANALYZER(
                BOOST(STARTS_WITH(contact.firstName, @searchTerm), 3) OR
                BOOST(STARTS_WITH(contact.lastName, @searchTerm), 2) OR 
                BOOST(STARTS_WITH(contact.email, @searchTerm), 1),
                "text_en"
            )
        SORT BM25(contact) DESC
        RETURN UNSET(contact, ["_id", "_rev"])
  ```

> 3. Add the word `nemo` to the searchTerm value to the right of the query editor window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the word `nemo` to the searchTerm value to the right of the query editor window.
```

Probably worth verifying that this list compiles properly and doesn't start from 1 again

> 4. Click **Run Query**. You will see your results show up below the Run Query button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Run Query**. You will see your results show up below the Run Query button.
```

> 5. (Optional) Click **Query Info** in the Query Result to see what the query did and how long each step took. Pretty cool if you're into performance metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Click **Query Info** in the Query Result to see what the query did and how long each step took. Pretty cool if you're into performance metrics.
```

> ## Step 3: Save the query as an API endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Save the Query as an API Endpoint
```

> Macrometa allows you to save a query as a [Query Worker](queryworkers/index.md).

Reviewer 2: I recommend linking to query-workers.md rather than the index.md, because this section covers both queries and query workers.

1. Click **Save Query**.

> 1. Name the query **getContactBySearchTerm** and click **Save**. This saves the query so you can use it again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Name the query **getContactBySearchTerm** and then click **Save**. This saves the query so you can use it again.
```

Reviewer 2: Include signposts such as "then," this helps less skilled English readers to understand the text.

1. Click **Run Query**.
1. Click **API Endpoint**.

> Macrometa displays a `curl` command you can use to access this endpoint from anywhere in the world in under 50ms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Macrometa displays a cURL command that you can use to access this endpoint from anywhere in the world in under 50ms.
```

:::note

> This query requires a key, so you must enter one in the bind parameters or else the query will fail with an error.

Reviewer 2: What key? You should clarify what this is.
